README.md, before:

# chatbot

Fine-tuning a chatbot on Messenger conversations

## Getting Started

### Framework

Set some environment variables:

```bash
export RUN_DIR=/path/to/run/dir  # This is where all your training logs and checkpoints will be written
export EVAL_RUN_DIR=/path/to/eval/run/dir  # This is where all your evaluation logs will be written
```

It's also a good idea to set these variables:

```bash
export DATA_DIR=/path/to/data/dir  # This is where your datasets are stored
export MODEL_DIR=/path/to/model/dir  # This is where your pretrained models are stored
```

Check out the documentation [here](https://ml.bolte.cc/getting_started.html).

### Dataset

1. Create a new directory called `$DATA_DIR/messenger`
2. Create a new JSON dump of your Messenger conversations from [here](https://www.messenger.com/dyi)
3. Download the ZIP file to the newly-created directory; it should have a path like `$DATA_DIR/messenger/facebook-{username}.zip`
4. Run `python -m chatbot.tasks.dataset` to preprocess the dataset

So ultimately you should have a directory structure like this:

```
$DATA_DIR
└── messenger
    ├── facebook-{username}.zip
    ├-- packed
    │   └── rwkv.bin
    └── messages
        └── inbox
            ├── {conversation_1}
            │   ├── message_1.json
            │   ├── message_2.json
            │   ├── ...
            │   └── message_n.json
            ├── {conversation_2}
            │   ├── message_1.json
            │   ├── message_2.json
            │   ├── ...
            │   └── message_n.json
            ├── ...
            └── {conversation_n}
                ├── message_1.json
                ├── message_2.json
                ├── ...
                └── message_n.json
```

### Train a model

Launch a training job:

```bash
runml train configs/rwkv.yaml
```

Commit message:

log kernel experiments (#9)
* log kernel experiments

* more experiments

* stuff

* more experiments

* fix config

* model training works correctly

* somewhat stable training code

* readme

README.md, after:

# chatbot

Fine-tuning a chatbot on Messenger conversations

This was trained on a single 4090. For other GPUs, use different model sizes or LoRA parameters.

## Getting Started

### Framework

Set some environment variables:

```bash
export RUN_DIR=/path/to/run/dir  # This is where all your training logs and checkpoints will be written
export EVAL_RUN_DIR=/path/to/eval/run/dir  # This is where all your evaluation logs will be written
```

It's also a good idea to set these variables:

```bash
export DATA_DIR=/path/to/data/dir  # This is where your datasets are stored
export MODEL_DIR=/path/to/model/dir  # This is where your pretrained models are stored
```

Check out the documentation [here](https://ml.bolte.cc/getting_started.html).

### Dataset

1. Create a new directory called `$DATA_DIR/messenger`
2. Create a new JSON dump of your Messenger conversations from [here](https://www.messenger.com/dyi)
3. Download the ZIP file to the newly-created directory; it should have a path like `$DATA_DIR/messenger/facebook-{username}.zip`
4. Run `python -m chatbot.tasks.dataset` to preprocess the dataset

So ultimately you should have a directory structure like this:

```
$DATA_DIR
└── messenger
    ├── facebook-{username}.zip
    ├-- packed
    │   └── rwkv.bin
    └── messages
        └── inbox
            ├── {conversation_1}
            │   ├── message_1.json
            │   ├── message_2.json
            │   ├── ...
            │   └── message_n.json
            ├── {conversation_2}
            │   ├── message_1.json
            │   ├── message_2.json
            │   ├── ...
            │   └── message_n.json
            ├── ...
            └── {conversation_n}
                ├── message_1.json
                ├── message_2.json
                ├── ...
                └── message_n.json
```

### Train a model

Launch a training job:

```bash
runml train configs/rwkv.yaml
```
